


1. Introduction
	
1.1 Purpose

This SRS explains all of the known requirements for the initial release of the Faculty Information Card Database Managagement Program (FICD). The requirements will be used by the team designing and building the FICD, and will follow stricly to this document for the initial release unless changes are requested by the customer during development. All of the requirements listed will be used to verify that the FICD functions correctly and meets the customer's needs.

1.2 Document Conventions

This document has several signifcant conventions in regards to sub sections. Each section is broken into a series of 1.1-1.x or alphabetically organized i.e.(1.A, 1.A.1, 1.X.x) where if required further breakdown will be used for greater detail. Otherwise, no specific typing conventions are used such as bold or italicized fonts.
	
1.3 Project Scope

The FICD will allow the Computer Science Administrator to generate Faculty Information Cards. Furthermore, the database will be able to store this data in an organized fashion to allow for cards to be generated all together or individually upon request. After generating the Faculty Information Cards they will be printed depending upon the request received by the Computer Science administrator. The office clerk will have limited ability to edit and view faculty office hours. The initial release will include all of these features and keep all other tasks and data private and unaccessible to anyone else.
	
1.4 References

Weigers, Karl and Beatty, Joy. Sample Requirements Documents: Software Requirements Specification, Software Requirements Third Edition, 2013.

2. Overall description

2.1 Product perspective

The FICD is a new software program database that will replace the manual process of inputting raw data and csv files into a database from which specific queries are used to finalize and format the Faculty Informations Cards for printing. The FICD will acquire information from multiple different external sources and formats and organize the information required for the intial release. The context diagram describes what information is exchanged between the FICD and external entities...

	
2.2 User Classes and Characteristics

The users of the FICD fall into three categories. The first is that of the technical administrator, responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of the program. The second is that of the office secretary, who is responsible for creating the data used by the FICD and designating assistants. The third is that of office clerks, who will be capable of updating the office hours and viewing the existing faculty card information.

The technical administration is not expected to be a formally recognized category in the FICD. The office administrator’s account will have the same level of access and capability, though they will not be expected to operate the technical administrator’s features. The administrator’s account is to serve backend functions such as account management and error diagnosis. In the event of an interdepartmental release, the administration account will gain the ability to set office administrator accounts’ and clerk accounts’ department setting.

There will be two levels of users recognized by the FICD. The first level of user will be the administrative user. They will be capable of importing, viewing, editing, and printing faculty information cards. Additionally, administrators will be capable of creating and managing accounts for all users of the FICD. Account management will involve changing user type, and changing a password for another account. The second will be the assistant level user. They will be capable of viewing and printing faculty information cards. The assistant level user will be capable of changing their own password.

2.3 Operating Environment

The FICD will be capable of operating on modern Windows systems with their minimum hardware requirements. The minimum hardware requirement is delivered below.

	Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 8.1, Windows 10
	1 gigahertz (GHz) or faster 64-bit (x64) processor
	2 GB RAM
	[?] available hard disk space
	DirectX 9 graphics device with WDDM 1.0 or higher driver
	Printing requires: Windows compatible printing device

2.4 Design and implementation constraints

The primary design and implementation constraint in the FICD is the expected budget of zero dollars for both tasks. Development, installation, and use must require a skill level no greater than that of an untrained student. The FICD must be self-contained such that it impacts no other programs in installation or uninstallation. The FICD must not slow down other programs more than 5% while running.

2.5 Assumptions and Dependencies

The FICD is not expected to export information except as printing faculty information cards, and will not be capable of exporting data in any other format. It is expected that should there be a need for the FICD’s information that it will be available by other means to authorized personnel, and that the FICD is not required to store its data in a format readable by other programs.

The FICD is dependent on the consistent formatting of the data to be imported. The initial release will be dependent solely on the Computer Science Department’s current spreadsheet based data. For later releases involving the use of other departments, the FICD will be dependent on other departments’ formatting as well for proper use of the import function.

The FICD will be dependent on a Windows based operating system. A change in operating system will require conversion of the program.


3. System Features

3.A Printing All Information Cards
	3.A.1 Description
Given a populated database of information, the FICD will be capable of printing all faculty information cards in the data on request. Priority = High
	3.A.2  Functional Requirements
There will be a button with the effect of printing all of the cards loaded into the FICD on the main editing window.

3.B Printing One Information Card

	3.B.1  Description
Given a faculty information card’s information in the main window, the FICD will be capable of printing that individual card. Priority = Medium
	3.B.2 Functional Requirements
There will be a button with the effect of printing the card currently loaded into the main window.


3.C Importing a spreadsheet with the FICD information
	3.C.1  Description
Given a properly formatted spreadsheet, the FICD will be capable of reading and parsing the data within it into faculty information cards. Priority = High

	3.C.2 Functional Requirements
There will be an ‘import spreadsheet’ button in the menu bar or on the main editing window with the effect of being capable of selecting a .csv file for importation. After the importation the information will be placed in the FICD database and editable within the program.


3.D Administrative Users Edit Faculty Information Card information
	3.D.1  Description
Administrative level users of the FICD will be capable of editing faculty information cards within the database, and saving that edited information to the database. Priority = High
	3.D.2 Functional Requirements
An administrative user will have displayed to them in text boxes the contents of the current information fields of the card to be edited. These boxes will be editable. The results of changes in those boxes will be saveable. The changed card can be printed without saving the changes.

     
3.E Clerk Users Edit Office Hours Only
	3.E.1 Description
Clerk level users must be able to edit the office hour sections of faculty information cards. Priority = Low
	3.E.2 Functional Requirements
Clerk level users will have text edit boxes for faculty information cards as well as the ability to save changes to that. All other information will be displayed only.

4. Data requirements

4.1 Logical data model

4.2 Data dictionary

4.3 Reports

4.4 Data acquisition, integrity, retention, and disposal

5. External interface requirements

5.1 User interfaces

UI-1: The FICD shall 

UI-2: The system shall provide help information for each of the user-interactive buttons and components to explain how that particular component functions for the user.

UI-3: The FICD interface will be fully navigatable via the mouse and keyboard input where verification is required to access any data and features besides the printed faculty information card. The administrator and clerk will be able to manually make the changes to the data that is accessible to their particular roles via the FICD interface. 

5.2 Software interfaces

SI-1: CSV file Import to Database System

SI-2: Manual data modification System

SI-3: Generate Card System

SI-4: Export/Print System


5.3 Hardware interface

HI-1: Supported Device types and platforms
	Personal Computer or server running: Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 8.1, or Windows 10
	Hardware Specifications inlcude:
	1 gigahertz (GHz) or faster 64-bit (x64) processor
	2 GB RAM
	[?] available hard disk space
	DirectX 9 graphics device with WDDM 1.0 or higher driver
	Printing requires: Windows compatible printing device

5.4 Communications interfaces
	
6. Quality attributes

6.1 Usability

6.2 Performance

6.3 Security

6.4 Safety
	
6.x [others]

7. Internationalization and localization requirements

The FICD’s scope is solely confined to the California State University of Sacramento, and is to be used at its largest possible extent by the departments therein. The FICD is not required to be internationalizable or even localizable to any other campus.

8. Other requirements

Appendix A: Glossary

Appendix B: Analysis models
